in this video Sam Seder makes an
argument that would be really
interesting if it were sincere I think
everyone will agree this just comes
together as a kind of improvised set of
excuses but the closing argument here is
that nobody ethically or morally is
gonna care about ecology veganism random
words nobody is gonna care because Sam
Seder is old enough to remember a time
when the United States of America was
killing thousands of people in
Afghanistan and he claims nobody cared
about that what an interesting
philosophy that would be what an
interesting like fictional character and
a novel that would be if you had someone
who really sincerely lost faith who lost
any hope in the possibility that ethics
matter in this world in this life in
politics because of their negative
experience with the politics of the
Afghan war that would be an interesting
character in a novel or in a film but
Sam that's that's not who you are
you're just a talk show hosts grasping
at any crummy excuse that you can and
that's the best excuse you came up with
for why you don't care why you don't
care about this issue that the caller
presents to you well to be fair to be
fair last night I had an impossible
burger for the first time and that was
actually really good yeah I mean after
having an impossible burger do you feel
like you know that you want to make that
transition toward some more plant-based
to diet you personally without death but
I yeah part for me would be more like
fish
and some chicken but I you know
progressively I'm eating less and some
pork I guess in the context of like
sausage occasionally I will say that
what you do on an individual level
really doesn't matter that much in terms
of the world there must have been a time
where you had that state of mind
and you knew that saying that you know
just saying oh what I do doesn't matter
like those excuses that people make for
not being vegan you know that they're
[ __ ] you know like he needs to take
responsibility for what we do and we're
the cause of this each and every one of
us you know
yeah the moral appeal is not going to be
effective for the greatest number of
people like I share the goal of wanting
people to eat less meat may it for the
animals for health for the planet I
think the most effective way to do that
and the most effective arguments for
most people will be that we need to have
a habitable planet because when it comes
down to morality it's entirely
subjective unless there's like you know
everybody believes in the same moral
system everybody believes in the same
like Platonic ideal somewhere in this
guy like it's very hard to prove that
something is immoral when it comes to
something that has so little agreement
like animal rights I think it's just
really important just on the subject of
you know environmentalism because this
is also this is the number one cause of
species extinction you know we're using
more land for it and then we are for
almost anything out and I just think
that like you know we're living in a
mass extinction right now and you know
if we don't as a species and I mean you
know I'm not necessarily uh you know I
don't know how successful I'm going to
be a man practices you know I don't know
how successful I'm gonna be in changing
people's minds but you know keeps
important that I
that we add the species if we're going
to have an environmental movement that
people stopped I you know start to see
all life on this earth of being valuable
people kind of start to realize that you
know we're all you know we're all on
this planet together I mean we have a
problem we'll read each other with
respect or denied I hate I agree but I
mean I have to remind you that 17 years
ago 15 years ago we were killing tens of
thousands of people ultimately we killed
hundreds of thousands of people and if
you walked around I was a fully grown
adult at this time you walked around and
asked people about it nobody nobody
nobody gave his second time nobody gave
it a second thought I mean so there are
limitations on a human's ability to give
a crap about other people and that is a
reality and it's it's also it's it's
going to make it that much harder for
them to give a crap about animals which
is why I say that in terms of achieving
your ends if they are strictly to save
as many animal lives as possible that
making it about morality is probably the
hardest route to go to get to that end
frankly but alright we're out of time
interesting stuff do I appreciate the
call there's a fundamental riddle here
in that Sam Seder presumes that because
he is a person who is opposed to the war
in Afghanistan that therefore he is a
person who cares about the war in
Afghanistan so Sam Seder your YouTube
channel has thousands and thousands of
videos he uploads many videos per week I
think in the last four months I think
you've mentioned Afghanistan twice
that's what I think I think there's
actually a pretty solid historical
record of just how little you care about
politics of Afghanistan on your youtube
channel I think it even shows how little
you care in that you so casually in this
video refer to thousands of deaths as
something that happened 15 years ago
many many years in the past the war
isn't over Sam and people who care
people who care and know that the year
2018 got a United Nations report here
and yeah by the way I was reading this
report it's video
sports on my phone because I am
interested I do follow Afghan politics
there's an election coming up in
Afghanistan right now for some reason
the Sam Seder show is not talking about
the election in Afghanistan you're not
talking about the body count of guess
you're not talking about what's going on
the war folks Sam you don't care it's
really easy for you to present yourself
this way that you're one of the special
people you're one of the tiny minority
of Americans who care Sam you don't care
you're 2018 how many civilians do you
think were killed in the ongoing war in
Afghanistan you're you're 2018 the
number is three thousand eight hundred
and four do you think the numbers have
been going down down down over the last
ten years they've been going up up up
you can get the bar chart yourself but
to simplify in 2010 it was about two
thousand seven hundred and ninety four
you know you get a good year here and
there but generally speaking in the last
ten years the civilian body count has
only been increasing what if you're
interested in combat deaths not
civilians what if you're interested in
Afghan security forces how many of them
died you will find the statistics are
concealed they are treated as secret
they are not broadcast because the
Americans and the Afghan government
would not want to demoralize people
would not want to demoralize new
recruits by talking about just how many
are dying in combat week after week
month after month year after year it's a
hell of a thing for you to say Sam
this is your argument your argument is
nobody cared about this issue ethically
or morally unlike you you're one of the
special ones you're the exception the
rules can
Sam and therefore it's gonna be really
hard it's gonna be really hard to
construct any moral or ethical argument
to change the world you know whether
it's about ecology animal rights
veganism Martha because this is these
are wildly unrelated examples I don't
think you really believe that's true Sam
I think your argument is insincere I
think you know that people signed up to
fight that war in Afghanistan for
ethical reasons for moral reasons I
think you know that still to this day
people are signing up to fight and die
because they think there's an ethical
difference that matters between
democracy and theocracy do you think
there's a really important ethical and
moral difference to me having a country
where women get to go to college and
have careers a country where everyone
gets to vote where there's a freedom of
the press and ballot boxes and all these
features features imposed from the West
no doubt there's a difference between
having a westernized Democratic slightly
gender equal Afghanistan and Afghanistan
being under the rule of the Taliban and
you're so busy patting yourself on the
back
presenting yourself as morally superior
or as morally superior to us in the
audience because you say you were
against it along you you disapproved of
the point Afghanistan from day one isn't
that easy thing to do
wouldn't it be harder for you to say
that you think Afghanistan would be
better off today if they had been
continuously ruled by a Taliban
dictatorship for all these years
instead of having American intervention
establishing democracy establishing the
government they have now a government
that has elections coming up and you on
your political youtube showing you're
not covering you're not covering those
Afghan elections because the truth is
Sam you don't care